ROTH. Book Four of the Faithful and the Fallen by John Gwynn, read by Damian Lynch.
ROTH and Vengeance Pored. John Milton. Paradise Lost.
Chapter One. There it is.
The year 1144 of the Age of Exiles, Hound Moon.
There it is, fell through the night air, weightless. He caught glimpses of the Tower
of Brickhan, Caledas's still smoldering outline at the window, then below, the river coming up
to meet him. He slammed into the water, the cold shocking the breath out of him. He panicked,
disorientated, realising he didn't know which way was up. All about him was darkness and ice.
Then something grabbed his hair, and he was surging upwards, breaking through the water
in a burst of spray, and saw Alcion's pale broad face staring back at him.
"They will come hunting for us," the giant shouted over the roar of the river,
as the current gripped them, sweeping them away from the thunder of warriors feet crossing the
bridge. "Let the water take us far from them." Veridos saw the sense of that, though his hands and
feet were already numbing from the cold. He put some effort into swimming, speeding his
way from Brickhan, from Caledas, from the Kadashim. The thought still jolted him like a blow.
They turned a bend in the river, and the fortress was gone, darkness enfolding them.
The soft, weak sheen of Dorn's grey light filtered down through the lattice of branches above,
as Veridos met Alcion's gaze, an unspoken agreement passing between them,
as they both headed for the riverbank. It was harder going, swimming across the current,
and Veridos realised how exhausted his body was, but eventually he felt silt beneath his feet,
his hands grasping at Reeds as he pulled himself out of the water and flopped onto his back,
gasping, his limbs feeling lead-filled. Turning, he saw Alcion on the bank, thirty of forty paces up
river from him, staggering wearily towards him before he slumped down beside him with a grown,
water dripping from his drooping moustache. "Thank you," Alcion said. "For what?"
"Everything. Most of all for helping my family escape Brickhan's dungeons."
His wife and bairn. "How long has he gone without seeing them?"
"And what must he have suffered, knowing they were Calidus and Lycus' prisoners?"
"And for destroying Calidus' effigy of me," Alcion continued. "You have set me free."
He gave a shudder, followed by a smile. "A shadow is gone from my soul. I feel reborn.
If you mean you feel weak as a newborn bairn," Veredis muttered as he emptied his boot of water
and tried to pull it back on, "then I feel the same."
"That is not what I mean," the giant rumbled, regarding Veredis with serious eyes.
"You set Reiner and Tain free. You set me free. I owe you a debt beyond all imagining."
"You're in no debt to me," Veredis said. "I kicked the effigies into the fire on impulse,
not really knowing what they were or what power they held over you."
"But you suspected?" "Aye."
"Something that Fidele said."
He thought of Nathair's mother, hoped that she had made it to freedom along with his brother,
Krellus, McKean and Albin. "And your wife and son, I set them free because it was the right thing to
do. There was no other choice." "Ah, but there was, true heart, there always is," Veredis shrugged.
"There is no debt between us. You are my friend." "One of my only friends," it has turned out.
His thoughts swept bitterly to Nathair and the confession and revelations that had stunned
Veredis. He remembered Caledus's confession, that Nathair had slain Aquilis, his own father.
Anger and shame twisted through him. There had been so many signs. How can I have been
deceived for so long? I am a fool." "How long?" Veredis asked him. "How long have you been Caledus's
prisoner?" Alcian's smile withered. "Sixteen years." "That is a long time." "It is," Alcian
clenched his fists, knuckles cracking. "I should have killed him." "To be fair, we both tried hard
on that count. I put a knife in his belly, threw him in a fire, and he shattered his chest with a
war hammer." "Kadashim are hard to kill." "I'd have to agree. Can he be killed?" "Maybe taking his head.
That is how the others are slain." "Others?" "The Jihah, they are demon possessed by Kadashim,
at Murias," Alcian said to the question in Veredis's eyes. "The Jihah," Veredis muttered,
shaking his head, "have been so blind." "You trusted your king and your friend,"
Alcian shrugged. "There are worse failings to have." "Are there?" "I have dedicated my life to
a lie." "They both sat in silence, water dripping from clothes and hair." "What now?" Veredis said
to himself. "It feels as if my whole life has been dedicated to an affair in his cause."
"What do I do now?" Alcian regarded him gravely, then poked his chest with a thick finger. "What
does your heart tell you?" "I will not trust it." "Look what has led me thus far," Veredis said
sourly. "Your eyes are open now." Veredis sucked in a deep breath, felt exhaustion seeping through
him. "What would you do?" he asked the giant. "Find my kin, my Reina and Tane." He smiled as he
said their names. "Kin? My father is slain, as is my brother Ektor. Only Krellus is left."
Suddenly, he was desperate to see his older brother. "Find our kin," he echoed. "A good place
to start." Something squawked, a handful of wood pigeons suddenly bursting from the trees and
flapping noisily overhead. "We should move." "We need cover." "Aye, to the trees," Veredis said as he
stood suppressing a groan. They were halfway across the clearing when Alcian stopped abruptly,
staring back along the riverbank. Forms appeared around a distant bend on the track, shadows in
the half-light that Fawn's canopy created, black shadows with curved swords sheathed across their
backs. "Kadoshim," Alcian growled. Veredis counted at least seven of them, moving quickly, a loping,
ground-eating paste like a pack of wolfen. They were spread in a half-circle between the riverbank
and the tree-line. "They are hunting us, have been running all night long following the river in
search of our trail." One of the figures paused, the others rippling to a halt about it. It lifted
its head as if tasting the air, then gave an ululating howl and leapt forwards a new energy
in its stride. "They've caught our scent." Veredis felt a jolt of fear. He'd faced giants, dregs,
warbands. But somehow, knowing that the demons of the other world were hunting him, sent a cold
shock of fear tingling through his veins. "Kadoshim," Calidis's kin, "my enemy." Calidis
filled his mind, an image of the man he had thought counsellor and ally emerging from the fire in
Brican's tower, flame-reathed and snarling. "He has corrupted Nathair and has deceived me for so long.
He is the author of this evil." Fear morphed into a cold rage and he reached for his sword, lips
twisting. "Move!" Altian grunted and broke into a run. Veredis resisted for a moment, inexplicably
wanting to stand and fight these creatures, but Altian dragged him along and, in a heartbeat
they were only a few strides from the tree-line. He realised the giant had no weapon, no war hammer
or battle axe strapped across his back, no sword or dagger at his hip. They crashed through the
first layer of undergrowth and were immediately enveloped by a twilight world of shadow and thorn.
Altian forged ahead, grunting as branches snapped upon his rock-like torso, thorns whipping at
Veredis, vines tangling about his boots. For what seemed a long time, Veredis only heard
his own heart thumping, the rasp of his breath, the thud of Altian's feet. Then there were sounds
behind him, faint at first, like the rustle of wind through foliage, but soon louder,
keening cries were floating about him. They splashed through a stream, something sinuous
and slithered beneath Veredis' feet, making him stumble. "They are almost upon us," he gasped to
Altian. "Better to turn and fight, hold a sword in my fist than die running." "I know," the giant said,
turning, chest heaving. Veredis drew his sword as they put their backs to a huge tree, the stream
before them, and waited. Forms flitted through the gloom, emerging from a curtain of shadows and thick
foliage. One was a long way ahead of the others, clothed in the dark mail of the Jihar, pale-skinned,
dark veins making a tapestry of its flesh. It saw them and leapt the stream, arms reaching for
Veredis, not even bothering to draw its sword. "Remember, you must take their heads," Altian
grunted, as he pushed away from the tree, hurling himself into the oncoming kaddashim with bone
crushing power. The two fell to the ground. Veredis hurtled forwards, sword raised, hacking two-handed
at the kaddashim's arm, its hand spinning away, blood like oil pumping languidly from the stump.
Then the two forms were rolling together again. Altian growled in pain, then he was on his knees,
arms wrapped about the kaddashim's torso, pinning its arms at its side. The creature's head writhed,
veins bulging as it strained to break free, Altian's face turning purple with the effort,
his locked fingers slowly pulling apart. "What are you waiting for?" the giant rasped,
and Veredis swung his sword, chopping into the creature's neck. Dark blood spurted from the
half-severed neck, the kaddashim screeching with fury, Altian roared with the strain of holding
the creature. Veredis wrenched his sword free and swung again. The kaddashim's head flew through
the air landing with a splash in the stream. Its body slumped, legs drumming as Altian fell away
and rolled clear. A black, icor-like mist flowed from the kaddashim's neck, hissing and swirling,
gathering above its body, forming a human shape with tattered wings of smoke spread about it,
and red eyes glowing like coals at its heart. Veredis stared, frozen. It screamed savagely,
then it was melting away, torn and dispersed by a slight breeze. "What the hell?" Veredis gasped.
"Down!" Altian yelled as he surged up from the ground, a fist slamming into the jaw of a leaping
kaddashim, hurling it spinning into the undergrowth. Almost as soon as it hit the ground, it was back
on its feet, twisting like a feral cat. Veredis hefted his sword, spread his legs to meet the
impact and then something crunched into his side, sending him flying through the air another
kaddashim's arms locked around his waist. He caught a glimpse of Altian standing,
kaddashim swarming upon him, then Veredis was slamming into the ground. Pain exploded in his
shoulder and his sword skidded away. He rolled, punched at his attacker, for a moment staring
into its black soulless eyes. Then they were sliding into the stream, the kaddashim beneath
him, his hands fastening about its neck, squeezing, seeking to crush the life from the black-eyed
abomination. It bucked and kicked like a wild stallion, thrashing a tempest amidst the stream
water, but Veredis would not let go. He felt its strength ebbing, some of its vitality fading,
then hands gripped him from behind, dragging him backwards, his fingers slipping as he was
hauled to the bank. Another kaddashim stood over him, drawing its sword from its back as
the one from the stream splashed into view. He rolled and saw a handful of kaddashim circling
Altian, who had fallen to one knee, the giant bleeding from a dozen wounds. Veredis tried
to drag himself through the mud towards his friend. Another kaddashim was held in Altian's
arms. He had one hand gripping its jaw, the other wrapped about its chest. With a savage
wrench, Altian heaved. Veredis heard the kaddashim's neck break, then the sound of flesh tearing,
Altian screaming his defiance as he ripped the kaddashim's head from its shoulders. He
flung the corpse to the ground as the black mist boiled from the dead creature's wound.
A searing pain lanced through Veredis's leg, a kaddashim blade scoring along his thigh.
He dropped to the ground, looked back at the two kaddashim on the stream bank. They were
following him, toying with him. The one with the drawn sword slashed his blade across Veredis's
upheld forearm, a new cut burning like fire. "Think we'll bleed you a while," the kaddashim
said, leering with pale lips, "pay you back for the chase you've led us." It should not
end like this. Frustration gave Veredis a last surge of strength and he rolled to his
feet, pushed himself upright. The kaddashim before him grinned, then paused, cocking its
head to one side. Figures burst out of the gloom. Veredis's hopes rose and then fell
as he saw the newcomers were dressed in black breastplates with silver eagles on their chests.
Eagle guard, no doubt sent by Nefear to make sure that his monsters complete their task.
Ten, twelve, fifteen more men, one of them tall and wide.
Veredis blinked, something familiar. "Well met, little brother," the big man bellowed,
whining wildly. A moment's confusion followed swiftly by elation. "Krellus!"
Then Krellus and his men were attacking the kaddashim, Krellus taking her head in one
great swing of his longsword. Another warrior swept into view, this one not dressed as a
man of tenerbrow but gripping a knife in each hand. He joined Krellus and together they attacked
the kaddashim before Veredis, McKean and Krellus.
Chapter 2 Nefear
Nefear stood in the great hall of Drassil and stared at the giant skeleton on its throne.
The bones of the ribcage surrounded a thick-shafted spear, the wood dark and pale-veined, only
a hint of black iron of the blade visible, the rest buried in the great tree of Drassil.
So that is Scald, High King of the Giants, and that is the Starstone Spear. Scald, the
last man to rule a united empire where giants and men lived together in peace.
Will I be the next to unite this shattered world? The skeleton was mottled yellow and
brown, ancient, the brow of the skull broad and thick eye sockets, black holes that seemed
to stare at Nefear, questioning him. Are you worthy? Are you capable? He sighed. History
shall be my judge, nothing and no one else. The hand touched his shoulder.
Jesus was standing at the head of Threescore Eagleguard. The young warrior had been recently
promoted to High Captain of the Fairs Warband now that Veridus was gone. Ah, Veridus. Are
you dead or alive, old friend? It does not seem right that you are not beside me to share
in this great victory. He had been informed of Veridus's betrayal, his attempt on Calidus's
life and he and Althean's escape.
Veridus. How could you abandon me, break your oath to me? He looked at the white scars on
the palm of his hand, one of them made as a blood oath of brotherhood to Veridus on
a moonlit hillside in Tenebrel. It felt like a lifetime ago, words and promises spoken
by different people. "My king," Cesar said. "It is Calidus. He asks for you."
Nefear looked back at the skeleton one last time, then turned and strode through the huge
chamber. The dead were still being cleared from the battle of the day before. Blood stained
the stone floor. Mounds of corpses lay in stinking piles. Hundreds of them—Kadashim,
Jeha, Venthalan, Eagleguard, Banothi Giants, many others. The cost of taking Drassil had
been high, higher than he would have imagined considering that the element of surprise had
been on their side. But victory is victory. The fortress is ours, the back of our enemy,
broken. Though many had escaped, reports were coming in of pitched battles still being fought
beyond the walls of Drassil. Nefear glanced to his right as he passed an open trapdoor
as wide as the gates of Geralin and the dark stain of blood on the stone before it.
Michael's blood. The Ben Elim's head now adorned a spear set in the ground of the courtyard
before the gates of Drassil. It was not alone. But what of Corbin, their bright star? Where
is he? He glared mistrustfully into the yawning dark of the tunnel, knew that Michael had chosen
to stand and fight there to gain time for many who escaped into the tunnel. Was Corbin
one of them? There had been no reports of Corbin being seen during the battle. Had he
even been here? It had been a long night and Nefear felt a greater weariness settling upon
him than he had ever known before. Caesar snapped an order behind him and Eagleguard
spread to either side, forming a protective column. "Drassil is not yet secure," Caesar
said in reply to Nefear's inquiring look. The courtyard also bore the signs of yesterday's
battle, bodies scattered all about, flies buzzing, the metallic aroma of blood everywhere.
For an instant, Nefear thought he saw a wolfen cub tugging at the leg of a dead caddishim,
but looking back realised it was a small white furred dog. They turned a corner in a street
and Nefear glimpsed the towering outer walls of Drassil beyond the layers of stone buildings
latticed with thick branches. This is a truly remarkable place. Branches soared above him
as thick as towers, with buildings of stone and iron wrapped about them bound tighter
than leather armour. It looks almost alive. The tree, the bones, the fortress, its flesh.
The rasp of a sword drawn from its scabbard drew his attention and he glimpsed the black-clothed
warrior hurtling from the shadows of a doorway. Abruptly, Caesar was yelling as more dark
figures emerged, iron glinting. The Eagleguard moved, shields thudding together around the
fair obscuring his view. Blood sprayed, spattering the fair's face as an Eagleguard before him
collapsed. A black-clothed Jihar slipped into the gap carved in the shield wall, surging
towards Nefear. Nefear drew his sword, fear and rage his constant companions igniting within
him. The shouts and screams of battle faded, his world contracting to the Jihar warrior
before him. A woman, her dark-skinned face all sharp bones almost fragile looking.
"Truth and courage!" she yelled, curved sword rising.
There was an explosion of sparks as their weapons met, the power of the Jihar's strike
making the tendons of his wrist shriek, shuddering on into his arm and shoulder. He pushed forwards,
knowing to retreat was to die, tried to move within her guard, use his short sword where
her longer blade would hinder her. They collided, limbs tangling as both crashed to the ground,
wrestling, punching, kicking and biting at each other as they rolled back and forth across
the stone street, with a battle raging all about them.
The Jihar struck a glancing blow that made his vision blur, then her knee crunched into
his groin and he slumped, pain exploding, pulsing through him in savage waves, draining
his strength. She pulled herself free and half rose as he coughed into the cold stone,
tried to rise, knew if he didn't, he was dead. Fear and rage sparked inside him, sent new
energy coursing through his veins. "I'll not die here."
The Jihar stood over him, sword raised, her eyes bright with victory. Then a form crashed
into her, throwing her to the ground. She started to rise and a boot slammed into her
jaw, sent her crashing back down. The figure was blurred, a buzzing cloud swirling about
it. Hands gripped him and pulled him upright, says as his concerned face appeared, blood
sheeting from a long cut across his forehead. Nefert looked past him, saw his rescuer pull
a sword from a scabbard upon its back and raised it over the unconscious Jihar. "A kaddashim?"
"No," Nefert called. The figure's head turned to look at him, the buzzing cloud parting.
"Flies," Nefert realized, recognizing the kaddashim. "No, Legion. I want her alive."
The kaddashim regarded him for a moment with cold black eyes. "Better dead," it said. "I
want her alive." Nefert snapped. "Kalidas may have questions." "Dead after, then,"
the kaddashim said, then sheathing its sword. "Kalidas wants you."
The flesh of its face and neck rippled, seeming to move of its own accord as if something
were locked within, trying to get out. About them, the battle seemed almost done. Nefert
scanned the street, counted nearly a score of his eagle guard dead to five or six of
their Jihar attackers. "This part of Jassil is supposed to have been cleared," he snarled.
"How did they get in here?" He looked down at the unconscious Jihar's form at Legion's
feet. "Bring her," Nefert said as he marched away.
As Nefert entered the courtyard before Jassil's gates, he heard a rumbling growl reverberate
from one of the many stables that edged the courtyard. He looked fondly at the doors that
contained his drake. Kalidas stood before the closed gates of Jassil, to either side
of him were a host of spears driven into the ground, most of them adorned with a head.
A handful of Venthalan warriors were planting new spears into the ground, while behind them
Kalishim prowled into the courtyard's shadows. Before Kalidas knelt a ragged group of people
bound at wrist and ankle, over three hundred prisoners from yesterday's battle. Above them,
one guard stood upon Jassil's wars. "My warriors."
They were easily the best disciplined troops amongst those that had stormed Jassil. The
Kalishim and many of Lycus's Venthalan were involved in the pursuit of their scattered
enemy out beyond Jassil's wars, but Nefert suspected that most by far were ranging throughout
the forest, looting and drinking. The Kalishim were doing other things, such as eating their
victims. Lycus was standing behind Kalidas. A dozen Venthalan ranged about him, hard-looking
men, bodies lean and muscular, skin weathered and scarred. Lycus lifted a waterskin to his
mouth and took a long drink. "I'd wager it's not water that he's drinking."
The Venthalan saw him approaching and nodded a greeting. Nefert hid his disgust. "Him and
my mother." "Ah, Nefert," Kalidas said. He raised an
eyebrow at the blood on Nefert's face, then saw Legion dragging the Jihar warrior across
the courtyard by her ankle. "Kalidas?" Nefert said, with a dip of his head.
His old counsellor was not looking his best. Part of his face was burned charcoal black
and peeling. Silver hair was growing in tufts from patches on his head, elsewhere singed
to stubble or burned clear. "It would appear that the streets of Drassil
are not yet cleared of our enemy," Nefert said sourly, as Legion dumped the Jihar warrior
in front of Kalidas. She groaned, pushing herself to her knees as Legion's hand clamped
on her shoulder, holding her before Kalidas. "What is your name, child?" Kalidas asked,
regarding her with his cold eyes. She spat blood at Kalidas's feet and glowered
up at him. "Ilta," the Jihar said. "And I am no child."
"Well, Ilta, I shall ask you the same question that I have just put to your comrades. Where
is Corban?" "You will see him soon enough," a voice said,
from amongst the prisoners. "He will come for you."
"And when he does," said Ilta, as she turned her head to look from Kalidas to Nefert and
Lycos, "he will kill you all." "He is a boy, a puppet. Your ill master is
already slain," Kalidas said angrily, sweeping a hand towards Michael's head.
"You are wrong," Ilta said. "Koban is our lord. He slew your best, Sumur, in single
combat. We all saw it. He will do the same to you."
"Sumur," Kalidas frowned. "I saw his head decorating your gates."
"Corban killed him," the prisoner's voice called out again, one vaguely familiar to Nefert.
"A figure straightened amongst the captives black hair hanging lank about her face. He
took Sumur's head, and he will take yours, too." "Ah, Cohen, I want nothing more than
for him to come and try," Kalidas said with a sigh, his expression mocking, but Nefert
glimpsed something else in his eyes. "Doubt?" "But so far, he does not seem inclined to
do so," Kalidas continued. "Perhaps a message will speed him to us."
He looked to the Kalidasim. "Legion, choose one prisoner and impale them upon a spear,"
he ordered. Legion drabbed Cohen and pulled her, struggling towards a spear. "Not her,"
Kalidas said with a wave of his hand. Legion grabbed another prisoner. He was a man of
Izeltir by the look of him. The Kalidasim hoisted him effortlessly into the air and brought
him down slowly upon the upright spear. Then the screaming began. When it was over, the
prisoner was skewered like a squirrel, ready for the cook fire. He was writhing upon the
spear, blood pooling about his feet, screaming himself to oblivion. Nefert resisted the urge
to cover his ears. "On your feet," Kalidas said to Iltar. "Go and tell Corban what is
happening to his followers, what I am doing. Tell him I will not stop until he has faced
me." Legion pushed her stumbling forwards as, with
a rumble, the gates opened. She looked back once and then ran, the gates slamming behind
her. Kalidas barked in order and the remaining captives were led away. Cohen caught Nefert's
eye as she walked in line, hatred pouring from her.
"We must talk soon," Kalidas said to Nefert and Lycos. "Hi, son, and the Great Hall."
Then he was striding away.
Lycos raised an eyebrow and offered Nefert his water-skin. Without thinking, Nefert took
it and drank, then coughed, almost choking on the contents. "Is that . . . mead," Lycos
finished for him, found a dozen wagons with barrels full of the stuff. Nefert handed it
back to him and Lycos walked away, chuckling to himself, his Venthallan following him.
Nefert headed for the wide stairs that scaled Drassil's walls and climbed to the top, stopping
above the great gates where he stared out at the world beyond.
A wide plain circled the fortress, clear blue sky bathing the ground in sunshine before
the great trees of fawn blotted it from view.
He caught a glimpse of Ilta just before she disappeared into the tree-line. Behind him,
he heard the footsteps of Cesus and his eagle-guard stopping a respectful distance away. The screams
of the impaled in the courtyard were much fainter up here, fading to a pathetic mewling.
He wished he would just die. "How have I allowed myself to come to this?"
"It is for the greater good. For me to win the war, Corbin must die. To bring peace to
the banished lands, Corbin must die."
He felt his resolve stir, but still the screams wormed their way into his head, reminding
him of other battles, other deaths in the name of this great cause.
"And now I follow the path of Karushim, of demons, of As-Roth himself."
He remembered Caledus' words to him in Murias, so persuasive.
It had all been so logical when Caledus explained it, made sense of the alliances, the lies,
deception upon deception, heaped in a great pile.
"But the truth is simpler," a voice seemed to whisper inside his mind.
Deep down, he knew.
It was more basic when all was stripped away. Caledus' persuasive arguments and philosophical
debates on good and evil, right and wrong, the abstract meanings that were attached to
names, politics, power struggles, who deserved what.
The honest answer was much simpler than any of those meandering debates, and one that
had been clearly reinforced by his brief struggle with the Jihad warrior before him.
"I don't want to lose."
CHAPTER 3
Coraline
Coraline sat with her back to a tree, staring into the dawn gloom of fawn, absently twirling
a knife between her fingers.
Behind her were the sleeping forms of three score or so of the survivors with whom she
had fled Drassil.
Across them was Brinna, gray hair poking from beneath her cloak. Beside her, the bolts of
Feral and Laith curled close together.
She glimpsed the Jihad, Akar, standing guard on the far side of their camp. Exhaustion
hovered at the fringes of her consciousness and, in so many ways, it would be wonderful
to lose herself in the nothingness of sleep.
But she couldn't.
Her mind was reeling, a whirlwind of grief, fear and rage as fractured moments of the
previous day played out in her mind's eye.
Out of them all, though, everything kept returning to one thought, circling, "Where is Corbin?"
The fog of tiredness crept upon her again, a relentless assault, but she knew that sleep
would not come, the shock and horror of yesterday's battle was still too present.
There was a soft footfall from behind and a figure came to stand beside her – Gar.
The lord of the Jihad looked at her, lines of worry etched upon his usually unreadable
face.
He was clothed in a shirt of dark chain mail, splattered with grime and blood, his curved
sword sheathed across his back, a single bladed throwing axe hanging at his belt.
Then he was not free of injury, a blood-stained bandage was tied around his forehead.
"Storm is with him," Gar said, as if he could read her thoughts.
"They must be as plain to read upon my face as are his."
Storm.
"That was a measure of comfort."
Corbin knew that the wolfen was a better guardian than a dozen shieldmen, but still, "We will
find him," Gar said.
Corbin had seen the familiar scuff marks of Storm's claws in the tunnel, which was why
they had exited at this spot.
After a brief search, she'd found more tracks leading to the brow of the slope, but darkness
has settled upon them and no matter how frustrating, it was pointless to stumble around in the
dark.
"But where can Corbin be?"
He must have heard the din of battle from Drassil, even if he were this far away.
The thoughts rose unbidden in her mind, the one thought she had refused to acknowledge
throughout the long dark of night.
What if he is slain?
What else could have kept him from returning to Drassil?
She felt a worm of fear wriggling through her belly but refused to consider it.
"He lives."
He must.
She nodded and stood, sheathing her knife, a myriad of cuts, bruises, and strains aching
for attention.
She ignored them all.
"We need to go," she said.
"Aye," Gar agreed.
He continued to stare at the trapdoor.
"I had hoped that Michael would find us, that he escaped."
Corbin remembered her last sight of the Ben-el-Im, wielding his sword two-handed, feet planted
before the entrance to the tunnel in Drassil's great hall as they had retreated into its
shadows.
Swaths of blood had surrounded him as he swung his sword in deadly arcs, holding back the
enemy, protecting them, purchasing them time to escape.
"He would have come by now, if he could," Corbin said.
Gar sighed and nodded.
Corbin cocked her head, listening, staring down the hill.
Something was moving in the undergrowth, heading towards the trapdoor.
Gar saw it, too, and without words the two of them separated, slipping into the shadows
as they quietly surrounded the intruder.
Bushes rustled, a twig snapped, and Corbin caught a glimpse of dark hair.
She knew it wasn't Corbin.
Even he isn't that clumsy.
A figure burst from the undergrowth, a young man clad in leather and wool, his dark hair
tousled and a scabbing cut marking his forehead.
He started at the sight of her, fumbled for a weapon at his belt, his eyes widening.
"I know you," Corbin said, though she didn't remember his name.
"Your da is Attilius," a competent, unassuming warrior, Attilius had been a slave oarsman
on a Vinthalen ship.
The lad nodded, his lip trembling.
"Pax, what are you doing here?"
Gar said, stepping silently from the shadows, making the young warrior jump again.
"You must come quickly," Pax blurted.
"My da!
Corbin!
Giants!"
"Corbin?"
Corbin hissed.
"Aye!
We must go!"
Gar was spilling down Pax's cheeks now, tracing tracks through blood and grime.
"He's dead."
Corbin froze, feeling as if a fist had just clamped around her heart.
"I ran," Pax said.
He began to shake, an involuntary twitching that quickly became more violent.
"Where is Corbin?"
Corbin asked, trying to control the panic leaking through her, reaching out to grab
the now sobbing boy and shake the scents from him.
"Hold," Gar said, putting a hand upon her arm.
"Pax, you must tell us as clearly as you can.
Where is Corbin and Yoda?
What happened?"
Others were coming down the hill now, corralling glimpse dath and color, a handful of jihar
lath looming behind them.
"We heard, fighting, knew Corbin was out there," Pax began, haltingly.
"We found him, facing giants and bears."
"What?"
"But there were no giants within the fair at Drassil."
"Dah!
He threw a spear at a giant, then we all ran.
We thought we'd lost them.
Then—"
"Go on," Gar said.
The whole group was gathered around them now, listening in absolute silence.
"They came from nowhere, my dah."
He rubbed his eyes, blew out a long breath.
"They killed my dah.
Corbin told me to run to fetch help."
"When did this happen?"
Gar asked, not able to keep the urgency from his voice.
"Yesterday, after High Sun before sunset."
Pax's face had grown paler as he spoke.
Now he looked like a corpse.
"I ran.
I fell, hit my head."
He raised a hand to the cut on his brow.
"When I came to, it was dark.
I've been trying to find my way since then."
"Take us, now," Gar said.
"I will try," Pax nodded.
"I became lost for a while, but I know it was that direction."
Gar barked orders and then they were moving, Corbin taking the lead with Pax, Gar jogging
beside the lad, a steadying hand on his arm.
Then storm, facing giants, alone, yesterday.
She sent a silent prayer to Elion, one of many that she had made over the last half
day.
"Let them still live."
Corbin was the first to enter the Glade.
At its far end was a sudden ridge, and beyond it, the sound of a fast flowing river.
The smell hit her first, the metallic tang of blood and decay.
Death.
Flies were buzzing in great clouds about bodies heaped on the floor.
She counted three giant corpses on the ground, and Atilius, pinned to a great oak by a giant's
axe.
She could not see Corbin or Storm.
She ran to the first giant, who was on his back, a hole in his belly, throat cleanly
cut, his wrist bearing the tell-tale ripping wounds of the wolfen.
Corbin moved on, dimly aware of others spilling into the Glade behind her, the sound of Pax's
sobs as he dropped to his knees before his dar, Gar's presence at her shoulder.
The other two giants were close together, the ground trampled, rutted, dark and still
sticky with blood.
One's throat had been ripped out by Storm, the flesh mangled and torn.
He is not here, nor Storm.
The relief was a physical thing, though she knew their absence did not mean that they
were safe or even alive, but it was clear they had fought here and won.
They slew three giants.
She felt a flush of pride at that feat, knew that it would be a story told around the campfire
this very night, adding to the tales that were growing up around Corbin and his wolfen
companion.
The other giant lay upon his front.
Gar and Corbin tried to turn him over together, flies buzzed angrily, the huge warriors' dead
weight like a boulder.
Farrell and Laith joined them, and together they rolled the giant, the stench of corruption
and decay wafting up to them as they disturbed the body.
"He is of the Jotun clan," Laith spat as they stood and stared at the dead giant.
"What are they doing here?"
Corbin's eyes were drawn to the glint of leather and iron amidst the congealed blood.
She bent and wrapped a fist around the hilt of a sword buried deep in the giant's thigh,
angled upwards into its groin.
It came free with a sucking sound, and she lifted it for them all to see, the pommel
shaped like a howling wolfen.
The relief she'd felt fled, replaced by the crushing weight of fear.
"That's Ban's sword," Dath said as he joined them.
Collar, a pace behind him.
Corbin stared at them a moment, felt a wave of sympathy for them.
They'd been weighed less than two nights.
Gar took the sword from her and stared at it.
"I watched Ban's da give him this blade."
"In the rowan field at Duncarig," Farrell said, "I remember it."
"And I?"
Dath muttered.
Ban turned away, her eyes scanning the ground, searching for any sign.
"He is not here.
Storm is not here.
They escaped, but they did not make their way back to Drassil.
Why?"
Brinner was on her knees beside the giant.
The old healer had a file in one hand, a knife in the other that she was using to scrape
blood from the trampled grass.
One side of Brinner's face was still an angry red, seared by the explosions she had generated
that had rocked the chamber in Drassil yesterday.
Whatever benefit Brinner thought the giant's blood would bring, she was welcome to it.
As Coraline scanned the rest of the clearing, her eyes caught a patch of crushed grass spattered
with blood.
It was close to the edge of the glade, leading to a sheer drop to the river below.
As if something were dragged.
She followed the marks and dropped to a crouch, looking down to the river.
Further down she spied a dark smear on a boulder, blood.
"They jumped into the river!" she called out.
Gar was first to join her.
His eyes found the same evidence and he gripped her wrist.
"After them!" he said.
Coraline led the way, running along the ridge that shadowed the river, twisting around thick-rooted
trees in dense vegetation, her eyes flitting between the path she was navigating and the
banks of the river.
Rounding a sharp bend in the path, she suddenly saw a shape lying on a grassy verge, firm
ated and blood-stained.
Her heart stopped.
"Storm!"
She skidded to a halt on the ridge above the wolfen, a part of her mind noticing large boot
prints in the grass.
In a spray of dirt, she scrambled over the edge, clinging to root and vine as she made
her way down to the riverbank.
Storm lay still as stone, and she was covered in blood, a huge wound was visible above her
shoulder.
Coraline crouched, too scared to touch her, not wanting to confirm what her eyes were
telling her.
Stifling tears, she remembered the first time she had seen Storm, when she had threatened
to turn the wolfen into a cloak.
Even then she had seen the bond between Coraline and his faithful and vigilant shadow.
Since then, she had developed her own bond with the wolfen, more like a sword-brother
to her than a mere animal.
As Gar joined her, she tentatively reached out her hand and laid it upon Storm's body.
She felt nothing.
"No, please, Elion above."
She screwed her eyes shut tight, pressed harder, flattening her palm against Storm's deep chest,
willing her hand to feel the movement of life, a drawn breath, the pumping of Storm's heart.
With every moment, her hopes faded, a bleakness taking hold inside, spreading through her
like ink through water.
And then?
She felt it.
A flicker, a heartbeat deep within the cavern of Storm's broad chest.
Then opened her eyes and saw Storm's amber gaze regarding her.
The wolfen whined, a weak, miserable sound, but one that gave Coraline a rush of joy.
Storm's tail thumped feebly on the turf.
Chapter 4 Corbin
Corbin walked through a world of grey, dimly aware that he was staggering close to a wide
and dark river.
There was a splash and a wide ripple, the hint of something large and sinuous in its
depths.
Bloated dark clouds boiled above him, flickering with lightning, and black shapes winged through
them with an occasional gleam of chainmail and iron.
This is the other world.
His knee throbbed and a pain spasm through his chest with every in-drawn breath.
He fixed his eyes on the ground before him, concentrating on each step.
There had always been an element of the other world that calmed him, a serenity that settled
within him that gave him a sense of strength and hope.
But this time was different.
There was something frayed about the peacefulness.
It felt force.
Something lurked at the fringes of his mind, trying, needing to be remembered.
When next he looked up, the river was flowing into a valley, cliffs rearing up by the side
of him tall and forbidding.
Inside of him, the river spilt into a lake.
Vibrant colour was seeping into the landscape with every step into the valley.
The grass grew greener, the river bluer, as if colour was seeping up from the rock below.
I know this place had been here before.
The green valley and the lake of deep blue.
Gentle waves lapped against the shore.
A sound drew Corbin's eye towards the lake's heart, a splash and ripples, as if a stone
had been thrown into water.
His memory prodded at him and his eyes wandered back to the lakeshore, searching for something
else and then he saw it.
The red-leafed maple that he had once sat beneath.
Without thinking, he made his way to it and sat down, his back to the trunk.
Everything was still, no breeze to stir the grass or leaves, no hum of insects.
The silence was oppressive.
And then, high above, like a heartbeat, there was a beat of wings.
He glanced up through the lattice of leaf and bark and saw a figure silhouetted against
the clouds, human-like, a spear clutched in one hand, broad, white-feathered wings powering
it through the air.
The Ben-Elim, Michael, Michael.
Then, like an avalanche, he remembered.
Michael, in the great hall of Drassil, telling Corbin about the deception of the Ben-Elim,
how the prophecy was nothing more than a strategy, a trick to force Asroth's hand to lure Calidus
and the Karashim to Drassil.
That the bright star and black sun were an invention, fabricated to snare Asroth in a
trap of his own making.
A sound strategy, maybe, in the great war between Ben-Elim and Karashim, the faithful
and the fallen, apart from the fact that it used people's lives like pawns on a throwboard.
My daar's life, my ma'am's, so many others.
Rage swept through him, veined with betrayal at the memory of Michael's confession.
He remembered resisting the urge to strike Michael, then leaving, knowing his rage was
at the boundaries of his control, and had ended up sitting upon a hill in the forest.
He had sat there a long time, contemplating Michael's words, trying to make some sense
of what it would mean for the future.
And then the Jotun giants had come, Ildar, their warlord, Slayer of Tuckle, Ghaz Da.
Images flickered through his mind, a bear roaring, spittle spraying from its red moor,
running, foliage whipping his face, the thunder of the bear's pursuit, the wounds to his knee
and chest, a spear piercing Storm, a river, ice-cold water.
Storm howling as giants had dragged him away from her side.
Storm.
Pain shuddered through Corbin's chest as if someone were gripping his heart, squeezing
and twisting it.
He couldn't breathe.
His sorrow was a physical thing that crushed the air from his lungs.
He staggered towards the lake, dropping to his knees at the water's edge.
And as he did so, more memories flooded his mind, an unstoppable wave of drassil, the
frantic blowing of horns and sound of battle that had drifted up to him.
Images of his loved ones swam before his eyes, Coraline, Gaar, Cohen, Dath and Farrell, Brynna,
so many others.
Do they still live?
Who was attacking drassil?
Dimly, he became aware of movement.
Around him, the water of the lake started to shift and foam, something rising from the
depths.
A shape appeared, water cascading and masking for a moment the creature within.
Then a man was striding from the lake, with water dripping from the dark cloak that trailed
him like seaweed.
He approached Corbin, an interested, amicable smile upon his face.
His skin was grey-mottled and veined like a dead thing.
His hair was black and slick as oil.
A black scabbarded sword hung at his hip.
"Well," the man said, "it's not often that I get visitors."
His voice was liquid, flowing like a shallow stream over shingle.
"What brings you to my home?"
"I, I've been here before," Corbin said.
"I know, I've watched you."
"This is the other world," Corbin said.
"It is, and this lake, this tree, this valley," the dark-haired man said with a wave of his
hands, "are mine."
He shrugged, water dripped from his hair.
"Are you Ben Ellum?"
Corbin asked.
The man laughed, a damp exhalation.
"Those pompous fools, no, though to my shame we are related."
"Carashim," Corbin asked, fearful.
"Hardly," the man snorted, "those fawning debauch deviants.
Do I look like one of them?"
"No," Corbin admitted.
"Well, then, I am just me, Viathan."
He lifted his hands, held one up to the sky, splayed his fingers.
Corbin saw that they were webbed like a frog's feet.
"You are from the world of flesh, are you not?"
The man said.
Corbin nodded wearily.
"And what is your name, creature of flesh?"
Viathan asked him, leaning in uncomfortably close, his breath washing over Corbin moist
and full of rot.
Corbin did not want to tell him.
"I'm going to go now," he said, standing, wanting to be far away from his creature.
"I don't think so," Viathan sighed.
"I think we should continue this conversation somewhere a little more private."
Corbin backed away, turning to leave.
Something grabbed his ankle.
Looking down, he saw that it was a tendril of Viathan's cloak, flexing like a grasping
limb.
It wrapped itself around his leg as Viathan walked back towards the lake.
Then, with shocking strength, the cloak pulled tight and started dragging Corbin.
For a moment, Corbin was too shocked to resist, but then he scrambled back, yanking at his
ankle, hand grasping for his sword.
"Come on, don't dally," Viathan called over his shoulder as he reached the lake.
He walked in, sinking rapidly.
The cloak seemed to split to flow, forming a myriad of strands, reaching up to Corbin,
each one contracting around his ankles, wrists and throat.
Then, he was being pulled down to the lakeshore, trussed like a fly in a spider's web into
the water.
Panic filled him as his head sank beneath the surface and he struggled desperately,
straining veins bulging, muscles screaming.
With a sinew tearing effort, he pulled one arm free and then he was bursting out of the
water, hoisted into the air, dangling before the creature, held up by his dark cloak that
looked now more like a squirming nest of snakes.
Corbin gasped for breath, ripping at the cloak strands, enclosing him to little effect.
Viathan regarded him with a cold fascination.
"Tell me your name," Viathan said, anger swelling in his voice the crash of waves upon rocks.
"Let me go," Corbin grunted through his constricted chest.
"You have trespassed here, disturbed my rest," Viathan said wetly as he pulled Corbin closer.
"In return, I will have some answers, and then, after, I may see how you taste."
A wave of found breath engulfed Corbin, making his stomach lurch.
"What are you?"
Corbin coughed.
"I am Viathan," the creature said, his mouth opening wide, seeming to grow before Corbin's
eyes wider and wider, revealing rows of razor-sharp teeth glistening and dripping with mucus.
"Eater of souls."
There was a whistling sound, and a spear slammed into Viathan's cloak, piercing it.
Corbin screamed as Ben-Elim swept down from the sky.
More spears flew, stabbing into Viathan's body.
His yell deepened into a bellow of pain and rage, and Corbin found himself thrown to the
ground as the creature turned its attention to its attackers.
Then hands were grasping Corbin, and he was hoisted into the air again.
There was a Ben-Elim either side of him surging skywards, their wings beating hard.
When heartbeats the conflict in the lake was below them, Viathan and his living cloak sinking
into the water, one strand coiling around a Ben-Elim, dragging it beneath the surface.
The Ben-Elim's scream cut short as the water closed over its head.
They flew higher, following the course of a winding valley, twisting and turning amongst